# CS-340-Client-Server-Development

## •	How do you write programs that are maintainable, readable, and adaptable? Especially consider your work on the CRUD Python module from Project One, which you used to connect the dashboard widgets to the database in Project Two. What were the advantages of working in this way? How else could you use this CRUD Python module in the future?

Encapsulation, in my opinion, is the most effective technique to design code that is repeatable, readable, and extensible. I mention this because encapsulating the code allows it to be readily applied elsewhere, enabling additional initiatives. Returning to this assignment, you could reuse the data piece by removing it from the dashboard and storing it separately. Additionally, by utilizing a standard dictionary input and sticking to standard formats, you may avoid over-specifying the code and turning it into a unit task tool. Finally, in terms of readability, many developers believe that they should write highly readable code (code that is clear and requires few comments), and while I strive to do so on a regular basis, I also believe it is important to annotate ways in which the base code could be improved and enhanced, i.e., suggestions for future contributors. Working in a modular framework and putting together packages makes it easier to contribute in the future, which I like. Finally, the crud module is quite instructive. I'm not sure I'll always be able to get it configured, but it's something I could see myself using whenever I'm working with mongoDB because it allows me to exfiltrate my data.

## •	How do you approach a problem as a computer scientist? Consider how you approached the database or dashboard requirements that Grazioso Salvare requested. How did your approach to this project differ from previous assignments in other courses? What techniques or strategies would you use in the future to create databases to meet other client requests?

This question appears to be a little fleeting. As a computer scientist, I take a piecemeal approach to problem resolution. I consider what tools I'll need to complete a task and begin there. Documenting the list of tools, you'll need to tackle an issue and then building upon it until you reach completion strikes me as excellent work. In addition, I believe it is critical to address issues one at a time. For this project, I concentrated on completing each need in order, then improving them after I had the functionality I desired. One of the advantages of jupyter notebooks is that you can separate your code frame and test it as you go. I did this a lot to make sure I got the results I desired by running and rerunning statements. I must have run the dashboard 300 times and double-checked each criterion. Then I'd move on after the condition had been met. I started experiencing issues with the virtual lab near the conclusion of the assignment. I would have spent more time evaluating and cleaning if I hadn't done so.

## •	What do computer scientists do, and why does it matter? How would your work on this type of project help a company, like Grazioso Salvare, to do their work better?

Once again, this is a rather fleeting question. On computers, computer scientists create tools, widgets, and apps. Some people specialize in data science and create reports, like how a full stack developer would handle, evaluate, and display data. Some people specialize in systems, such as database administrators and system administrators, and their job entails setting and enabling systems to communicate with one another. Finally, there are software developers who construct apps from the ground up, such as app developers, programmers, testers, and other software developers. This work reminds me a lot of data science work. Graziano will benefit from having a dashboard to use while looking for and locating service animals. It is a low-maintenance tool with certain capabilities for them to work with because it is immediately related to the data. It's also modular and interactive, offering people the ability to collaborate with the product because it was created in Dash. Dash was a fantastic tool for this project, and it's one I'd want to bring to work with me. I'd want to show off its capabilities and create tools that are adaptable for the team. I believe that the reporting paradigm in which a customer approaches a programmer and requests a report within a certain period with fixed specifications is giving way to more rapid prototyping and development. As a result, most data scientists are not programmers, but rather persons with a PhD degree in stem education.
